Project Features
================

Each team will be assigned to work on a specific feature of chiventure.
Each team will have a chance to express a preference, and we will aim to
assign each team to a feature they have expressed very high interest in.

Types of features
-----------------

Broadly speaking, there are two types of features you will be able to
work on: those that involve improving and maintaining existing code in
chiventure, and those that involve implementing new features.

Existing features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Working on existing features involves diving into existing code,
understanding it, and figuring out how to build additional functionality
into that feature. Knowing how to do this is a *very* useful skill, but
it also means there are fewer design opportunities (since some of the
major design decisions will have already been made). To be clear,
building additional functionality into an existing feature still
involves some design, just not as much as if you were building an
entirely new feature.

One perk of working on an existing feature is that there is already
plenty of work that can be done in each of these features. Once you
familiarize yourself with the code, you can start working on any number
of issues on the project
`backlog <https://github.com/uchicago-cs/chiventure/milestone/6>`__,
before you think about building any substantially new functionality into
that feature.

New features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

chiventure has a `Feature
Wishlist <https://github.com/uchicago-cs/chiventure/wiki/Feature-Wishlist>`__
with a list of features that do not currently exist in chiventure, but
which would be nice to add.

Working on a new feature involves more design work up front, as well as
more freedom to decide how the feature will be implemented. On the other
hand, it can be more challenging to come up with tasks to work on, since
you’re not starting from an existing backlog of tasks, and you have to
be willing to adapt to changing requirements. All that said, figuring
out a path to implement a new feature is a very valuable skill to have
(and you still get to dive into existing code, but not to the extent
that you would if you were working on an existing feature).

Choosing a feature
------------------

Your team will be asked to score every feature on a scale of -5 to +5,
where +5 is “we would all absolutely love to work on this component”, -5
is “every single person on the team would be unhappy if we had to work
on this component”, and 0 is “we have no strong feelings one way or the
other”. While we encourage you to come up with these scores via
discussion within your team, you can also ask each team member to score
each feature as -1, 0, or +1; adding up these individual scores can give
you a sense of what the team is leaning towards, and can help focus your
discussion (by discarding features that clearly most of you are not
thrilled about).

Another important thing you need to understand about your choice of
features is that, while some features may be more challenging than
others, and some may involve more design work than others, **the
difficulty and nature of the feature has no direct impact on your
grade**. Remember: in this class you are being evaluated on how well you
follow a software development process, not on the functionality you are
able to produce by the end of the quarter (see `Project Evaluation <policies.html#project-evaluation>`__
in the `Project Policies <policies.html>`__). So, for example, you could
choose a challenging feature and not have a working prototype by the end
of the quarter, but that would not be a factor in determining your
grade. Similarly, you could choose a less challenging feature, but walk
away with a bad grade if you don’t follow a software development process
properly.

In the end, you should pick a feature because you’re interested in what
that feature involves, and because you think the nature of the work
(working on an existing feature vs working on a new feature) is
appealing to you.
